now we're bouncing right on to idea
number two
which i call the voltaire make an impact
with questions and this is an
interesting transition
because questions are kind of the one
thing you probably shouldn't do
in a letter i mean you could you could
write a letter asking a bunch of
questions
but by the time you mail that out it
takes weeks they receive it they write
you back
it's just very inefficient communication
but
questions belong in another type of
communication and that is face to face
or networking events so why is this
called the voltaire well voltaire has
a famous quote judge a man by his
questions rather than by
his answers now i want to give you an
example of where i saw this
having a real life effect in my job i'm
a franchise development consultant
which means i work with a territory of
broker owners
and i help them work on their business
and really every broker
has three main objectives they want to
recruit new agents
they want to retain the great agents
that they have
and they want to help develop those
agents so in this particular instance
we'll call the broker bob that's not his
actual name
bob was trying to recruit an agent in
his city and he was really determined to
get this agent she was a high producer
and thought that she would be a great
addition to his office
but he was really upset he called me and
he explained that despite what he
thought was a great recruiting
interview that she ended up choosing
another brokerage
in the city and so i asked bob to run me
through
how the interview went and so he told me
he sat down with
the agent we'll call her sally so bob
sat down with sally and he said
sally listen we've been tracking your
production the last few years and
it is impressive but we think we can
help bring your business to another
level
there's a few reasons for that first off
we have the highest producing agents
on average out of any office in the city
second the remax brand recognition is 91
among consumers so you don't have to
explain what you do for a living
people just know when you wear that
balloon pin third we have
training that we are constantly offering
each of our agents virtual
and in-person hybrid training sally this
is the office for you
sally didn't end up going to that office
i fundamentally believe had bob's
conversation his recruiting interview
included more
questions the odds of sally joining his
office go way higher let me explain
so bob sits down with sally and he says
sally tell me a little bit about what
you want to accomplish in your career
and sally says well i've had a great few
years but i think
i can reach another level bob says
what's holding you back
sally says well there's a few issues
don't get me wrong i love my broker
owner she is amazing but
our office only has so much training
i've been through
all of the training and i still have to
explain what i do for a living
people don't know our real estate
company so i have to start
every appointment that way by explaining
what i do for a living
and i have to hire a third-party
marketing company to help me out as well
and i think that perhaps in another
environment i could have more success
so bob continues to ask a few more
questions and get as much
information out of sally as possible and
then bob can revert to that initial
conversation but now
he is equipped with the information he
got from sally
so he says sally you mentioned that you
have another gear left in you
i couldn't agree more and that name
recognition issue
re max is known by 91 percent of
consumers you ask 91
of consumers to name a real estate
company they will name re max you no
longer have to explain your brand and
the training you
mentioned well that is something our
office offers multiple times a week a
combination of virtual training and in
person
sally this is the office for you that
shift in asking questions
i believe gives bob a higher chance of
recruiting but it's not just me
speculating at that
research shows that people who ask
questions
especially follow-up questions are more
liked
by their conversation partners now this
makes sense if you think about any
networking event you've been to where
you're in a group of people and there's
a conversation on a particular subject
so let's say everyone's talking about
sports somebody's telling a story and
what everyone else in the conversation
is doing is they're racking their brains
trying to think
of a relevant story that they can
incorporate in the conversation
but what's more rare is that people are
actually listening and asking follow-up
questions to those people
who are telling their stories now this
research
i mentioned it comes from a 2017 harvard
research study
where they took different groups of
people and in some groups they asked one
conversation partner to
ask a lot of questions in the
conversation other groups they said just
proceed as normal
and the final group they said
purposefully don't ask questions don't
ask follow-up questions
and when they rated how satisfactory
these conversations were for the other
person who was involved in the
conversations
consistently they found that those who
asked more
questions were more liked they found
that when people ask more questions they
are perceived as higher in
responsiveness which is an
interpersonal construct that captures
listening
understanding validation and care
by the way this experiment included a
speed
dating element and in the speed dating
scenario
those people who asked more questions
were more likely
to get a second date so here is the
volunteer challenge over the next month
i want you to make a point of asking
more questions in every conversation
you are in whether it's a conversation
in the elevator or with one of the admin
staff in your office
or again with your spouse or your kids i
want you to imagine that somebody is
keeping score you get one point for
every question you ask and at the end of
every conversation
i want you to win by asking more
questions